# `ReactJS` Toolchains

## Table of Contents
- [Further Reading]()
    1. [How to remove node_modules folder](https://sebhastian.com/remove-node-modules/)
    2. [Quick way to delete node_modules folder on Windows](https://www.cloudhadoop.com/nodejs-quick-way-delete-node-modules)

# Popular Toolchains for `ReactJS`
1. `create-react-app` (`CRA`)
2. `NextJS`
3. `Vite`

# `Vite` vs. `CRA`
* Choose `CRA` if you prioritize simplicity, ease of use and no-configuration setup.
* Choose `Vite` if you value speed, performance and flexibility.

# Common Folders and Files in React Toolchains

# `node_modules`
* `node_modules` folder contains all the saved `js` dependancies of a project.
* To ignore the `node_modules` folder in `Git`, create a `.gitignore` file with this entry:
    ```gitignore
      node_modules
    ```
* To remove `node_modules` folder run the following command using `powershell` or `Git Bash`
    ```sh
      # using bash
      rm -rf node_modules
    ```
* You can also use the `npm` package called `rimraf`
    ```sh
        # using npm package
        npx rimraf node_modules
    ```
# `package.json` File
* The `package.json` file  is a crucial part of a `Node.js` or `npm-based` project, including `React` projects created with `create-react-app` or `pnpm create vite@latest`. It contains important information about your project, such as its:
  * `name`, 
  * `version`, 
  * `dependencies`, and 
  * `scripts`.
  
* When you push your project to `GitHub`, including the `package.json` file ensures that anyone who clones your repository can quickly set up and run the project without having to manually configure the dependencies and scripts.

* When you install a package using `npm`, you can use the `--save` or `-S` flag to instruct `npm` to update the `package.json` file with the new package and its version as a dependency. 

  ```sh
        # install node package and upddate the package.json file
        npm install package-name --save
  ```


# `package-lock.json` file
* `package-lock.json` file is a lock file that ensures that your project will always use the same __versions__ of the __dependencies__, regardless of when you install it or who installs it. It contains the following information:
  * The exact versions of all the dependencies that are required to run your project.
  * The location of each dependency.
  * The checksum of each dependency.

* It is recommended to commit the `package-lock.json` file along with your project source code so that all the developers and CI/CD will use this file to install the same version of the package. However, you should not edit the `package-lock.json` file manually, as it is automatically generated by `npm` or `Yarn`.

# `package.json` vs `package-lock.json`
* The main difference between the two files is that `package-lock.json` is a more detailed file that contains the exact versions of all the dependencies that are required to run your project. `package.json` only contains the names and versions of the dependencies, and it does not guarantee that the same versions will be installed every time.